Okay, big day
for this household.
It certainly is.
So exciting. Nothing like
starting a new job.
Or finally coming into your own
at a job you already have.
- The promise
of something new.
- Oh.
The rewards of finally being–
To opposite things
being equally good.
Cheers.
Yes.
I have accepted
a job at the CFJ–
the Center for Justice.
Not, it turns out,
a secret headquarters
for superheroes.
Aw, no, it–
It kind of is.
It’s a legal aid society
founded by a law school
friend of mine.
I will be an advocate
for the people,
a voice for the voiceless.
And just as important–
Oh, thank you.
Tonight I’m chaperoning
the Spring-A-Ding-Fling,
a fund-raiser, a dance,
which, under my stewardship,
has shattered school records.
And I added
the "A-Ding."
Used to just be
called the Spring Fling.
[ Chuckles ]
I should have said
my thing first.
Hey, guys.
For my opening number
tonight– Be honest–
Does it look like I have
anything on under this?
Tonight is the SCARB.
Mmm.
Southern California
Annual Realtors’ Banquet.
It is the banquet for
Southern California Realtors.
Literally, it’s the only one.
And this guy is
the only two-time host–
- Three-time.
- Three-time host in
the history of the event.
Unfortunately,
I have to miss it this year.
It’s for the best.
She’s invisible at these things.
It’s tough being married
to the rock star.
Luckily, I lined up
a substitute date.
Dad. You’re still up.
Hey.
Just working
on some jokes
for the banquet.
How’d you like
to come with me?
I would love to!
Not surprised she said yes.
That girl’s got real estate in
her blood.
She used to come with me to
open houses when she was little.
We may have even talked about
a father/daughter partnership.
Yeah, she’s been drifting
a little lately,
but I think a taste of regional
real estate’s most glamorous
night...
might just reignite
that flame.
[ Scoffs ] I can’t believe
I have to go to this thing.
But what choice did I have?
I would love to!
But you’re not gonna have those
cookies without milk, right?
Right. Come on, Phil!
♪ Hey, hey ♪
♪ Hey ♪♪
Break area. Copier.
- My stinky dog.
- Oh, look at you.
You just threw up
recently. Okay.
Oh, my gosh. That’s you
and Michelle Obama.
- That’s my aunt.
- I am so sorry.
- I don’t know
why I thought that–
- Calm down, white guilt.
- It’s Michelle Obama.
- Oh, good, yeah.
Yeah, you’ve accomplished
a lot in 15 years.
Professionally, yeah.
I haven’t had a date
in six months.
Some Sundays, I drive out
to visit my frozen eggs.
But on the plus side, I have
gotten really close with my mom.
Oh, look at that.
I see the resemblance.
That’s Maya Angelou.
Damn it.
- It’s signed, Mitch.
- Oh. Yeah. I see that.
This is gonna be fun!
I know!
I’m just really
looking for–
You!
What was that outfit last night?
That was a business dinner!
What is wrong with you?
Wendy, I tried.
Well, try harder. Go, go.
- Ooh, here’s your office.
- Okay.
- Oh, this is nice.
- Yeah.
Dennis liked it...
until he didn’t.
I’ll check on you later.
Okay.
All right.
Let’s see here.
- Huh.
- New guy?
Uh, yes. Hi.
I’m Mitchell Pritchett.
Dan. Hope you don’t have
any plans for Sunday night–
Dan! What are you still
doing here?
Go!
Sorry.
Huh!
Right.
That way!
Ha.
[ Chuckles ]
So–
Oh, no.
I do love it in leather.
Well, learn to love it
in silk.
It’s too hot outside
to be wearing leather.
I’m talking
about this car.
By the way, I do the negotiating
at the dealership today.
- Why?
- Honey, I’m a businessman.
When it comes to people,
I know how to get what I
want out of ’em.
This watch–
The man sold it to me for half
of what he was asking.
These– a third.
This– for free.
So who’s better
at working people,
Mr. Businessman?
Fine.
We have different approaches,
but we’re both pretty good.
Hmm.
[ Phone Ringing ]
[ Phone Beeps ]
Hello, Mitch.
Hey, buddy. You look like
you want to get up and walk.
Late bloomer. Fine.
Who cares if the other kids
call you Slow Joe?
And they do, you know.
[ Gloria ]
Bye-bye.
[ Phone Beeps ]
We’re gonna
have to reschedule
the car shopping.
Mitch has to work.
Cam has to dance.
- We have to sit Lily.
- Hmm.
- What?
- Nothin’.
Just– I could have
got us out of that.
[ Coughs ]
Stop! Ugh!
Eat it!
Eat the grass, cow!
Get off me!
- Hi, Rhonda.
- Hi, Mrs. Dunphy.
- [ Spits ] Hey, Mom.
- Honey, it’s getting very close
to time for the dance.
- Shouldn’t you go in
and get changed?
- I did already.
- The guys are coming by.
We’re gonna ride from here.
- What about you, Rhonda?
- You want to go in
and get cleaned up?
- I’m good.
Are you? What about
that dirt on your face?
Luke, you wait here.
Ride with your friends.
I will bring Rhonda. Come on.
Just, um, give me a good shake
like a dog before you go inside.
[ Alex Laughing ]
I know.
My dad has three tattoos.
Like, "Why? You’re a dad."
Ew! It’s so sad
when parents try.
My mom double-pierced
one of her ears, and I’m
like, "Hello! You’re 50."
So old– like, ancient–
to have an ear piercing–
It’s nasty.
Uh, you two decide
to go to the dance?
Well, yeah,
but not really.
But yeah.
- What?
- We’re going ironically...
to make fun of all the kids
who make a big deal out of it.
"Ironic"? My ass.
Alex likes Drew.
She’s just playing it safe.
Now there are
the pushy, obnoxious moms
who try and get involved,
nudge them towards
one another.
We mean well.
[ Laughing ]
- Fancy shirt, Coach Tucker.
- Oh, thank you.
You know what I like to say.
I might be coach,
but I travel first class.
So, what would you think
about giving the opening remarks
at the dance tonight?
The arts committee
has never made this much,
and it’s all because of you.
Oh, you guys. When I came to
this school six months ago,
I never would have imagined
you would embrace me
the way–
Excuse me?
Is this a chem lab?
- Because I’m looking
for a big reaction.
- [ Squealing ]
And there it is.
Hi. How are– Oh!
[ Laughs ]
Who is this?
How was sabbatical?
Amazing.
I’m rested and ready...
to take another vacation.
How are we supposed
to know him?
Señor Kaplan.
Legendary Spanish teacher.
You know, my heart went out
to him a little because he left
as everyone’s favorite,
and I’m sure word got out
about, you know– me.
I just didn’t want him
to feel displaced.
Okay.
Excuse me, big guy.
Gifts for everyone.
Angela, this is fresh
from Anuradhapura.
And, uh, Karen,
you might want to eat
some chapati with that.
- And this is for, um–
- Marcia.
Marcia! Right, of course.
I knew that.
I must have been having
a "señor" moment.
Somebody’s always on.
Who did this?
[ Jay ]
What happened?
Somebody knocked my bag down
and broke my phone.
Lily, do you know
anything about this?
He did it.
- Joe?
- Yep. I’m going to
go and play.
- She lies.
- How could Joe pull
a bag off a table?
He can’t even walk.
I’ll talk to her.
Why you? Because you’re
such a businessman that know
how to talk to people?
Trust me. When I get done
talkin’ to her,
not only will she have
confessed to the crime,
I might even sell her a closet.
[ Joe Coos ]
I remember my buddies
and I were playing
rock war once.
That’s a game
where you chuck rocks
at each other’s heads.
I mean, what could
go wrong, right?
I put one through the window
of my old man’s Rambler,
and he thought
my baby brother did it.
I couldn’t take it,
and I told him I did it.
It felt so good
to confess,
and my old man
was so proud of me,
I didn’t even
get in any trouble.
Y– You know?
Joe did it.
She’s good.
Watch and learn.
I don’t think
that cleavage thing is
gonna work with this one.
That’s not my only trick.
Hola, Lily.
Where did Grandpa go?
Don’t worry about Jay.
It’s only you and me
here now.
So, tell me,
which one of these
is your favorite?
Fine. One by one,
they will disappear.
Sooner or later, we’ll get
to the one that you love.
[ Phil ]
Ladies and gentlemen,
he’s the emperor of escrow.
He puts the "tude"
in Tudor.
Let’s put your hands together
for Phil Dunphy!
[ Cheering, Applauding ]
Thanks for
the kind introduction, me.
[ Laughing ]
Now, unlike past years,
I’m not gonna stand up here
and talk your ears off.
♪♪ [ Piano ]
No, ladies and gentlemen.
You deserve more.
This year,
I’m gonna sing ’em off.
♪ I’m selling away ♪
[ Laughing ]
♪ Set an open house
for Saturday ♪
♪ A gathering of agents ♪
♪ Appeared in caravan ♪
♪ I’m a new divorcée ♪
♪ Now I need a house ♪
♪ That’s cat-friendly ♪
[ Laughing ]
They say the greats
never let anything
affect their performance.
Well, maybe the greats never had
a daughter who checked out...
during the third of five planned
real-time, mid-performance
wardrobe changes.
I’m not gonna lie.
It knocked me off my game.
♪ On the board– ♪♪
- [ Audience Gasping ]
- Oh!
[ Groans ]
[ Whispering ]
Is this part of it?
No.
It’s not part of it.
[ Beeps ]
[ Pounding Continues ]
[ Mitchell ]
In law school, Wendy Kirk
could be a little intense.
I always hoped that
she’d soften over time, but...
some people
go the other way.
[ Man ]
This place is a nightmare.
The conditions
are deplorable,
and no one should have to
suffer this kind of abuse
on a daily basis.
What kind of tyrant
has such utter disregard
for human life?
- I can’t do this.
- You have to.
Wendy needs to hear it.
Yeah, but I’m nervous.
[ Wendy ]
Mitchell–
Yes! Hi.
I just had a great idea.
I think you would be
the perfect person
to groom Rex.
Excuse me?
I just think he’d really respond
to someone like you, you know?
You don’t mind, right?
Uh, no.
No, not at all.
Great. Thanks.
Will you go over
and introduce yourself?
Intro– Okay. Okay.
Yeah. Thank you.
Yeah.
Okay.
Hello. I’m Mitchell.
And, apparently,
this is my job now.
Oh, God, you smell.
♪♪ [ Mid-tempo Dance ]
People are looking at me.
Yeah! That’s because you
let me make you beautiful.
Nuh-uh. Stop it.
Am I?
Yes, you are.
Have fun. Go. Go.
Drew. Hey, Drew.
Having fun?
"Fun"? Uh– Okay.
Oh, Drew.
Drew, listen.
Phil and I are gonna be out
really late tonight,
so there will not be
an adult at the house
when you drop Alex off,
if you know what I mean.
Don’t worry.
I’ll drop her off
and I won’t go in.
Well, big house,
you know,
cute daughter.
I would not be opposed
to you walking her in,
keeping her company
until we get back.
Like I said,
we will not be back
until late.
I hear you, Mrs. Dunphy.
Uh-huh.
You can trust me.
Well, gonna have to
trust you...
because we have no way
of knowing what you’re
gonna get up to.
In fact, if your car
is blocking the driveway,
I’ll just honk twice
and wait for you
to come out.
Okay.
Go get her, tiger.
Come on.
Nice job, Tucker.
I mean, you made so many choices
that I never would have made,
but a lot of them are working.
Oh, well, you know,
I just watched the videos...
of the many, many dances
you planned...
and just built off
that one idea.
Hey, kids!
There are
my little chalupas!
¡Hola!
[ All ]
[ Laughs ]
Wow!
Um, what did you do
to Rhonda?
I cleaned her up.
No, you broke her.
I hate her like this.
She looks fantastic.
To you! Fix her.
Ugh, it confuses me.
Oh, Luke.
"The house will be empty"?
You are pimping me out!
It is clear
that the two of you
like one another.
Sometimes you need
a little nudge.
Well, you’re a chaperone!
Just disappear.
This dance is not for you!
Uh-uh-uh.
[ Sniffs ]
You’re lucky
that’s water.
[ Whispers ]
Damn it.
She’s been
stewing in there
for an hour.
I say let’s lock the door,
cut the power.
Let’s show her
that we mean business.
Let’s try the joint approach
first, Gitmo.
Hmm.
Okay, we’ve been
going over your story,
and it doesn’t add up.
My purse was too high
for Joe to reach.
He’s tall enough
to reach up here.
He knocked over
the baby powder trying to
get my stuffed animals.
- Not buying it.
- Look. You can see the
footprints where he walked.
- Walk?
- Lily, Lily, Lily.
- Joe can’t walk.
- He does for me.
So you have ways
of making him walk?
Lily, just admit
that you did it.
Come here, Joe. Come here,
like you did before.
- [ Jay ] Honey, you’re
embarrassing yourself.
- Come here, Joe.
He can’t walk.
He’s walking! The candles
that I lit worked!
Look at the stride on him.
He’s as sure-footed
as a mountain goat.
- Told you.
- I’m so sorry
that we doubted you.
Boy, did I get lucky.
I’m going to
blame everything on him
until he learns how to talk.
This guy waltzes in here
like he’s king of the dance...
after doing God knows what
in Sri Lanka.
"Building schools
in underdeveloped areas."
What does that even mean?
Is it possible
that you’re being
a little hard on the man?
I turned his two-bit dance
into the event of the year.
Look. Burnouts and dweebs
hanging out together
in harmony.
That is me.
I’m sorry, Cam.
Don’t feel sorry for me.
Next is faculty dance.
Kaplan can’t move.
It’s on his Tumblr.
It’s his big shame.
Trust me. He can’t touch this.
[ Woman ] Okay. Time now
for the faculty dance.
Go, teachers.
Uh, are you sure?
♪♪ [ Disco ]
Stop.
It’s Cammer time.
Ooh!
[ Laughs ]
[ Singing Along ]
♪ Shake it, shake it ♪
Mind if I join you,
Coach?
♪ Shake your groove thing
Shake your groove thing
Yeah, yeah ♪
♪ Show ’em how we do it now ♪
♪ Shake your groove thing
Shake your groove thing
Yeah, yeah ♪
♪ Show ’em how we do it now ♪
While on sabbatical,
I learned a thing or two from
Sri Lanka’s own Chitrasena.
I don’t know
who that is,
and it’s annoying when
you say things like people
are supposed to know!
That pathetic peacock of a man
was not going down
without a fight.
I had a choice to make–
be the better dancer
or the bigger man.
So I stepped off the dance floor
and made the obvious call.
You want to win over a crowd?
Invite a lonely mom to dance.
She never saw it coming,
and neither did he.
Whoo!
♪ Shake it ♪
♪ Show them how we do it now ♪♪
[ Cheering ]
Hey, señor.
You just got out-coached.
[ Mitchell ]
I try and look on
the bright side of things.
I’m a "doggy bath is half full"
kind of guy.
But it was time for me
to open my eyes.
I was working for a monster.
I came to this job to be
the voice of the downtrodden.
Turns out those downtrodden
were my coworkers,
and they were desperate
for a hero to slay their dragon.
[ Sighs ]
Hey, guys. Sorry I’m late.
Um, Rex, how’s it going
with Mitchell?
The new guy?
I haven’t met him yet.
That’s weird. I asked him
to introduce himself.
Um– Hey, has anybody
seen my dog? Pixie!
Oh, there she is.
Wow!
Okay, Wendy, I’m sorry.
I have something to say to you,
something that everybody else
here is afraid to say.
Now, I know you’re fighting
the good fight,
but that is no excuse
for the way you treat people.
That actually might be one
of the reasons that you have
no personal life,
because who wants
to come home to a cold,
emotionless thug?
What are you talking about?
I am an experienced,
respected attorney,
and on my first day,
you asked me to bathe Rex.
I’m not comfortable
with that.
And I’m not comfortable
with that, but I did it.
Okay, that’s Pixie.
This is Rex, the intern
I asked you to groom.
And that is my mistake,
and I own that.
But that is still
no excuse...
for the way that you
tore into him for the outfit
he wore yesterday.
I was talking about the outfit
he picked out for me.
Apparently, I have the one
gay intern in the world with
absolutely no fashion sense.
I was unaware of–
of this dynamic.
But I-I’m not alone here,
all right?
There are people in this room
who feel that you are–
How did we say it?
You are "a tyrant with
no regard for human life."
That sounds like my summation
for the slumlord case.
- Oh, hey, you finished it?
- It’s wonderful.
- But he’s nervous to show you.
- Why are you so hard
on yourself?
Okay, but what–
what about you making us
work on Sundays?
The night of my barbecue?
Dan?
What are you still doing here?
It’s your anniversary! Go home!
Oh, God.
This isn’t happening.
No, no.
She’s– She’s crazy.
I mean, I saw her attack
the vending machine.
That’s the only way it works
since Dennis broke it.
Dennis is the guy
whose office I took?
Yeah, he was
the machine’s best customer
until he started running.
One day, he said
he’s got to get out or–
He would die.
Okay. Okay.
Wendy, um, I might owe you
a little bit of an apology,
so I’m sorry.
Uh, clearly, everybody here
loves you, and I was wrong
about everything.
[ Whispers ]
So, I’m sorry.
No, you–
You weren’t wrong
about everything. I mean–
Look, I do joke
about it, but you’re right.
I’m alone.
And that is not
the first time that someone
has called me cold.
Those eggs– Those eggs
came out of me frozen.
And I’m impossibly tall,
and even if I could find
somebody to love me,
they wouldn’t
be able to reach.
No. Hey, hey. Come on.
You’re an amazing woman.
She’s an amazing woman.
And you’re a role model.
You’re a hero.
I’m a six-foot hero.
No.
Come on.
You’re surrounded
by people who love you.
Here’s Dan and Rex.
Me. Come here.
All the way up
to Samuel L. Jackson there.
That’s your mother
in a Kangol hat, isn’t it?
Yeah.
Um, are you sure you know
what you’re doing, Tad?
I know you’re
the mortgage doctor–
Someone said, "Is there
a doctor in the house?"
Was I supposed to not get up?
Hey, Dad. You need any help
out of that dress?
Not unless you want to
see me in nothing but
a Baby New Year’s diaper.
That was the big finish
to the song you were
texting through.
Hey, I got one text.
I saw most of the show–
We’re leaving, okay?
Could you just go to the table
and grab my keys and purse?
Fine.
You want to talk
about it?
How many kinds
of fake doctor are you?
[ Man ] Okay, time for
the big award of the night,
the ROY, Realtor of the Year.
I don’t even know
why I’m mad at her.
Probably just ’cause
she was so bored all night.
Maybe you’re feeling
rejected?
It’s my own fault.
I built up this hope
that she’d want to follow me
into real estate.
...Phil Dunphy.
[ Applauding, Cheering ]
She’s got her own life now.
I just don’t know where
we connect anymore.
You won.
What?
Yeah.
Help me up!
Oh!
[ Groans ]
As we all know,
Phil had a little
accident tonight,
but we’re happy to accept
this award on his behalf.
Wait, wait, wait, wait!
I got this.
Hi. I’m, uh– I’m Haley,
Phil’s daughter.
Dad, you won the ROY!
[ Applauding ]
Oh.
Um–
[ Sighs ] Wow.
You all know him
as an amazing Realtor,
but I know him
as the world’s greatest dad.
As far as I’m concerned,
he’s Dad of the Year, the DOY.
It really is a shame
that you didn’t hear
the rest of his act tonight.
I– I heard him
rehearsing it.
Uh, which one of you
is J.J. McCubbin?
Oh. Hey,
quick question, J.J.
Why is a great mortgage rate
like your wife in bed?
Once a month
and low interest.
[ Laughing ]
What are you laughing at,
Skip Woosnum?
You haven’t seen a commission
since you joined the navy.
She is killing it.
That’s my girl. I would have
hit the word "navy" harder.
What else? What else?
Oh!
Margaret Fuhrman’s here.
Little heads-up to her date–
she’s been upside down in more
houses than Fannie Mae.
[ All Oohing ]
Or, in her case,
Fannie definitely will.
[ Mitchell ]
We all want people
to think the best of us.
[ Cameron ]
So sometimes we cover things up
to protect ourselves.
[ Jay ]
But we don’t have
to be afraid.
[ Gloria ]
Because the truth
is always a good thing.
[ Cheering, Whistling ]
[ Mitchell ]
The truth sets us free.
[ Cameron ]
Brings us closer.
So, do you want to tell us
how Joe’s shoes ended up
on the wrong feet?
I guess the little guy knows
how to put on his own shoes.
There you go, buddy.
You got this.
What are you doing?
Since Joe can walk now,
I figured he should be doing
a few chores.
Steady, big guy!
Chores? What kind of–
[ Laughs ]
There he is. That-a-boy!
That-a-boy!
A beer? Are you crazy?
Where you going? You want some?
He’ll bring it to you.
I can’t believe that you’re
teaching him to do that.
- Wait till you see part two.
- [ Can Opens ]
Attaboy.
[ Gasps ]
Relax! It was me.